Add geo-centroid and weighted average aggregations documentation (#7613)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/metric/geocentroid.md

---
layout: default
title: Geocentroid
parent: Metric aggregations
grand_parent: Aggregations
nav_order: 45
---

# Geocentroid

The `geo_centroid` aggregation in OpenSearch is a powerful tool that allows you to calculate the weighted geographic center or focal point of a set of spatial data points. This metric aggregation operates on `geo_point` fields and returns the centroid location as a latitude-longitude pair.

> ## Using the aggregation

Author: Technical reviewer: Please confirm this example is relevant to an OpenSearch user and addresses the following user feedback: Undocumented behavior for when two indexes with overlapping field names are associated with the same alias. What happens when these are different types? There appears to be some kind of implicit casting that occurs. I tested the example using Dev Tools. If another example is more appropriate, please replace the draft example with your example. Thank you.

Reviewer: LGTM

        "field": "location"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The response includes a `centroid` object with `lat` and `lon` properties representing the weighted centroid location of all indexed data point, as shown in the following example:

 ```json
 "aggregations": {
    "centroid": {
      "location": {
        "lat": 43.78224998130463,
        "lon": -47.506300045643
      },
      "count": 4
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**4. Nest under other aggregations (optional)**

You can also nest the `geo_centroid` aggregation under other bucket aggregations, such as `terms`, to calculate the centroid for subsets of your data. For example, to find the centroid location for each city, use the following request:

```json
GET /restaurants/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "cities": {
      "terms": {
        "field": "city.keyword"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "centroid": {
          "geo_centroid": {
            "field": "location"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

This returns a centroid location for each city bucket, allowing you to analyze the geographic center of data points in different cities.

> ## Using `geo_centroid` with `geohash_grid` aggregation

Author: ```suggestion
## Using `geo_centroid` with the `geohash_grid` aggregation
```

> The `geohash_grid` aggregation partitions geo-spatial data into buckets based on geohash prefixes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `geohash_grid` aggregation partitions geospatial data into buckets based on geohash prefixes. 
```

When a document contains multiple geopoint values in a field, the `geohash_grid` aggregation assigns the document to multiple buckets, even if one or more of its geopoints are outside the bucket boundaries. This behavior is different from how individual geopoints are treated, where only those within the bucket boundaries are considered.

When you nest the `geo_centroid` aggregation under the `geohash_grid` aggregation, each centroid is calculated using all geopoints in a bucket, including those that may be outside the bucket boundaries. This can result in centroid locations that fall outside the geographic area represented by the bucket.

#### Example 

> In this example, the `geohash_grid` aggregation with a `precision` of `3` creates buckets based on geohash prefixes of length `3`. Since each document has multiple geopoints, they may be assigned to multiple buckets, even if some of the geopoints fall outside the bucket boundaries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the `geohash_grid` aggregation with a `precision` of `3` creates buckets based on geohash prefixes of length `3`. Because each document has multiple geopoints, they may be assigned to multiple buckets, even if some of the geopoints fall outside the bucket boundaries.
```

The `geo_centroid` subaggregation calculates the centroid for each bucket using all geopoints assigned to that bucket, including those outside the bucket boundaries. This means that the resulting centroid locations may not necessarily lie within the geographic area represented by the corresponding geohash bucket.

> First, create an index and then index documents with multiple geopoints: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, create an index and index documents containing multiple geopoints: 
```

```json
PUT /locations
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "name": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "coordinates": {
        "type": "geo_point"
      }
    }
  }
}

POST /locations/_bulk?refresh
{"index": {"_id": 1}}
{"name": "Point A", "coordinates": ["40.7128, -74.0059", "51.5074, -0.1278"]}
{"index": {"_id": 2}}
{"name": "Point B", "coordinates": ["48.8566, 2.3522", "34.0522, -118.2437"]}
```

> Then, run `geohash_grid` with `geo_centroid` subaggregation:

Reviewer 2: There are articles missing here.

> Then, run `geohash_grid` with `geo_centroid` subaggregation:

Author: ```suggestion
Then, run `geohash_grid` with the `geo_centroid` subaggregation:
```
